durability:

  Your objects are never lost or compromised. 

Availabity:
  access the data quickly when you need it.
  S3 standard is designed for 99:99% availability.

You can set security at the bucket level or individual obj. level using access control lists (ACLs), bucket policies, or access point policies.

You can use S3 logs to track the access to your buckets and objects.

You can enable versioning to create multiple versions of your file in order to protect aganinst acceidental deletion and to use a previous version.

S3 is regional service, but bucket names must be globally unique.

S3 Storage classes:

  S3 standard: 
    General-purpose storage
    Data stored across multiple availability zones
    Low latency and high throughput

  S3 intelligent-Tiering
    Automatically mv your data to the most cost-effective storage class
    Automatic cost savings
    No retrieval fees
    Data stored across multiple Availability Zones
    
    Recomended 4: 
      Data with unknown or changing access pattern (applications)
      Data Lake (upredictable access patterns)

  S3 Standard-Infrequent Acess(IA)
    Data accessed less frequently but requires rapid access
    Data stored across multiple Availability Zones
    Cheaper than S3 Standard.

    Recomended 4:
      Long-lived data
      Infrently accessed
      Milisecond access when needed

  S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (IA)
    Like S3 Standard-IA but data stored in a single Availability Zone
    Cost 20% less then s3 Standard-IA
    Data stored in this storage class can be lost

    Recommended for:
      Re-creatable data
      Infrequently accessed w/ milisecond access 
      Availability and durability not essential

  S3 Glacier
    Long-term data storage and archival for lower cosrs 
    Data retrieval takes longer
    3 retrieval options: 1-5 min, 3-5 hours, 5-12 hours
    Data stored across multiple AZs.

    Recommended for:
      Long-term backups
      Cheaper storage options

  S3 Glacier Deep Archive 
    Like S3 Glacier but longer access times 
    2 retrieval options: 12 hours or 48 hours
    Cheapest of all s3 options
    Data stored across mutilple AZs

    Recommended for:
      Long-term data archival accessed once or twice a year 
      Retainning data 4 regulatory compliance requirements

  S3 Outposts
    Provides object storage on-premises
    A single storage class
    Store data across multiple devices and servers

    Recommended for:
      Data that needs to be kept local 
      Demanding application performance needs

S3 in the Real World 

  Static websites
    combined w/ cloudfront you can have global distribution

  Data archive
    Amazon Glaciers

  Analytics Sytems
    use  w/ RedShift or Athena

  Mobile Applications
    
